README.md, before:

# WLed Binding

This openHAB binding allows you to auto discover and use LED strings from the WLED project found here:
<https://github.com/Aircoookie/WLED>

To watch what the binding does, enter this in to the openHAB console log:set TRACE org.openhab.binding.wled

## Supported Things

| Thing Type ID | Description |
|-|-|
| `wled` | Use this for RGB and RGBW strings. |

## Discovery

The auto discovery will work with this binding if your network supports mDNS.
If it fails to find your WLED, you can manually add a `wled` thing by using the UI or textual methods.
The full example section gives everything needed to quickly setup using textual config.

## Thing Configuration

| Parameter | Description |
|-|-|
| `address`| The URL to your WLED device. Example is `http://192.168.0.2:80` |
| `pollTime`| How often you want the states of the LED fetched in case you make changes with a non openHAB app or web browser or the light is auto changing FX. |

## Channels

| Channel | Type | Description |
|-|-|-|
| `masterControls` | Color | Gives you control over the WLED like it is a normal light. Tag this control for Alexa or Google/Nest to change the lights instantly to any color, brightness or on/off state that you ask for regardless of what mode the light is in. |
| `primaryColor` | Color | The primary color used in FX. |
| `primaryWhite` | Dimmer | Ability to control the white channel if you have RGBW LEDs. |
| `secondaryColor` | Color | The secondary color used in FX. |
| `secondaryWhite` | Dimmer | Ability to control the white channel if you have RGBW LEDs. |
| `palettes` | String | A list of palettes you can select from. |
| `fx` | String |  A list of Effects you can select from. |
| `speed` | Dimmer | Changes the speed of the loaded effect. |
| `intensity` | Dimmer | Changes the intensity of the loaded effect. |
| `presets` | String |  A list of presets you can select from.  |
| `presetCycle` | Switch | Turns on automatic changing from one preset to the next. |
| `presetDuration` | Dimmer | How long it takes to change from one preset to the next with `presetCycle` turned ON. |
| `transformTime` | Dimmer | How long it takes to transform/morph from one look to the next. |
| `sleep` | Switch | Turns on the sleep timer. |

## Full Example

*.things

```
Thing wled:wled:ChristmasTree "My Christmas Tree" @ "Lights" [address="http://192.168.0.4:80"]
```

*.items

```
Color XmasTree_MasterControls "Christmas Tree" ["Lighting"] {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:masterControls"}
Color XmasTree_Primary "Primary Color"    {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:primaryColor"}
Color XmasTree_Secondary   "Secondary Color"  {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:secondaryColor"}
String XmasTree_FX       "FX"        <text>{channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:fx"}
String XmasTree_Palette  "Palette"   <colorwheel>    {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:palettes"}
String XmasTree_Presets  "Preset"    <text> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:presets"}
Dimmer XmasTree_Speed    "FX Speed"  <time>  {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:speed"}
Dimmer XmasTree_Intensity "FX Intensity" {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:intensity"}
Switch XmasTree_PresetCycle "presetCycle" <time> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:presetCycle"}
Dimmer XmasTree_PresetDuration "presetDuration" <time> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:presetDuration"}
Dimmer XmasTree_TransformTime "presetTransformTime" <time> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:transformTime"}
Switch XmasTree_Sleep    "Sleep"     <moon> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:sleep"}

```

*.sitemap

```
        Text label="XmasLights" icon="rgb"{
            Switch item=XmasTree_MasterControls
            Slider item=XmasTree_MasterControls
            Colorpicker item=XmasTree_MasterControls
            Switch item=XmasTree_Sleep
            Colorpicker item=XmasTree_Primary
            Colorpicker item=XmasTree_Secondary            
            Selection item=XmasTree_FX
            Selection item=XmasTree_Palette
            Selection item=XmasTree_Presets
            Default item=XmasTree_Speed  
            Default item=XmasTree_Intensity            
            Default item=XmasTree_PresetCycle  
            Default item=XmasTree_PresetDuration 
            Default item=XmasTree_TransformTime
        }
        
```

Commit message:

Add save preset action, and new white sat threshold feature.
Signed-off-by: Matthew Skinner <matt@pcmus.com>

README.md, after:

# WLED Binding

This openHAB binding allows you to auto discover and use LED strings from the WLED project found here:
<https://github.com/Aircoookie/WLED>

## Fault Finding

To watch what the binding does you can enter this in to the openHAB console, `log:set TRACE org.openhab.binding.wled` which will allow you to test the same commands in a web browser to determine if it is a bug in the binding, or in the firmware for WLED.

## Supported Things

| Thing Type ID | Description |
|-|-|
| `wled` | Use this for RGB and RGBW strings. |

## Discovery

The auto discovery will work with this binding if your network supports mDNS.
If it fails to find your WLED, you can manually add a `wled` thing by using the UI or textual methods.
The full example section gives everything needed to quickly setup using textual config.

## Thing Configuration

| Parameter | Description |
|-|-|
| `address`| The URL to your WLED device. Example is `http://192.168.0.2:80` |
| `pollTime`| How often you want the states of the LED fetched in case you make changes with a non openHAB app or web browser or the light is auto changing FX. |
| `saturationThreshold` | Allows you to use a colorpicker linked to the masterControls channel to trigger the pure white LEDs when your using RGBW strings. Try setting the value to 12 or for RGB strings leave this on 0. TIP: set to 33 if you want Google devices to select the real white LEDS when you ask for white. |

## Channels

| Channel | Type | Description |
|-|-|-|
| `masterControls` | Color | Gives you control over the WLED like it is a normal light. Tag this control for Alexa or Google/Nest to change the lights instantly to any color, brightness or on/off state that you ask for regardless of what mode the light is in. |
| `primaryColor` | Color | The primary color used in FX. |
| `primaryWhite` | Dimmer | Ability to control the white channel if you have RGBW LEDs. |
| `secondaryColor` | Color | The secondary color used in FX. |
| `secondaryWhite` | Dimmer | Ability to control the white channel if you have RGBW LEDs. |
| `palettes` | String | A list of palettes you can select from. |
| `fx` | String |  A list of Effects you can select from. |
| `speed` | Dimmer | Changes the speed of the loaded effect. |
| `intensity` | Dimmer | Changes the intensity of the loaded effect. |
| `presets` | String |  A list of presets you can select from.  |
| `presetCycle` | Switch | Turns on automatic changing from one preset to the next. |
| `presetDuration` | Dimmer | How long it takes to change from one preset to the next with `presetCycle` turned ON. |
| `transformTime` | Dimmer | How long it takes to transform/morph from one look to the next. |
| `sleep` | Switch | Turns on the sleep timer. |

## Full Example

*.things

```
Thing wled:wled:ChristmasTree "My Christmas Tree" @ "Lights" [address="http://192.168.0.4:80"]
```

*.items

```
Color XmasTree_MasterControls "Christmas Tree" ["Lighting"] {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:masterControls"}
Color XmasTree_Primary "Primary Color"    {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:primaryColor"}
Color XmasTree_Secondary   "Secondary Color"  {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:secondaryColor"}
String XmasTree_FX       "FX"        <text>{channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:fx"}
String XmasTree_Palette  "Palette"   <colorwheel>    {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:palettes"}
String XmasTree_Presets  "Preset"    <text> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:presets"}
Dimmer XmasTree_Speed    "FX Speed"  <time>  {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:speed"}
Dimmer XmasTree_Intensity "FX Intensity" {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:intensity"}
Switch XmasTree_PresetCycle "presetCycle" <time> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:presetCycle"}
Dimmer XmasTree_PresetDuration "presetDuration" <time> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:presetDuration"}
Dimmer XmasTree_TransformTime "presetTransformTime" <time> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:transformTime"}
Switch XmasTree_Sleep    "Sleep"     <moon> {channel="wled:wled:ChristmasTree:sleep"}

```

*.sitemap

```
        Text label="XmasLights" icon="rgb"{
            Switch item=XmasTree_MasterControls
            Slider item=XmasTree_MasterControls
            Colorpicker item=XmasTree_MasterControls
            Switch item=XmasTree_Sleep
            Colorpicker item=XmasTree_Primary
            Colorpicker item=XmasTree_Secondary            
            Selection item=XmasTree_FX
            Selection item=XmasTree_Palette
            Selection item=XmasTree_Presets
            Default item=XmasTree_Speed  
            Default item=XmasTree_Intensity            
            Default item=XmasTree_PresetCycle  
            Default item=XmasTree_PresetDuration 
            Default item=XmasTree_TransformTime
        }
        
```
